Priyanka Gandhi - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Early life and education 2 Political career Toggle Political career subsection 2.1 Formative years 2.2 Political debut 2.2.1 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections 2.3 Member of Parliament 3 Electoral history 4 See also 5 Notes 6 References 7 External links Toggle the table of contents Priyanka Gandhi 37 languages العربية অসমীয়া বাংলা भोजपुरी Български Deutsch Español فارسی Français 한국어 Հայերեն हिन्दी Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ಕನ್ನಡ मैथिली മലയാളം मराठी مصرى नेपाली 日本語 ଓଡ଼ିଆ ਪੰਜਾਬੀ پنجابی پښتو Polski Português Русский ᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤ Simple English Suomi Svenska தமிழ் తెలుగు ไทย اردو 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read View source View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read View source View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikiquote Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Indian politician (born 1972) Priyanka Gandhi Vadra Gandhi Vadra while campaigning Member of Parliament, Lok Sabha Incumbent Assumed office 28 November 2024 Preceded by Rahul Gandhi Constituency Wayanad, Kerala General Secretary Indian National Congress Incumbent Assumed office 4 February 2019 President Rahul Gandhi Sonia Gandhi (interim) Mallikarjun Kharge General Secretary of AICC for Uttar Pradesh [ a ] In office 4 February 2019 – 23 December 2023 President Rahul Gandhi Sonia Gandhi (interim) Mallikarjun Kharge Succeeded by Avinash Pandey [ 1 ] Personal details Born ( 1972-01-12 ) 12 January 1972 (age 53) New Delhi , Delhi , India Political party Indian National Congress Spouse Robert Vadra ​ ( m. 1997) ​ Children Raihan Vadra (son) Miraya Vadra (daughter) Parent(s) Rajiv Gandhi (father) Sonia Gandhi (mother) Relatives Rahul Gandhi (brother) Nehru–Gandhi family Alma mater University of Delhi ( B.A. , M.A. ) Occupation Politician Signature Priyanka Gandhi Vadra ( née Gandhi ; born 12 January 1972) is an Indian politician who is serving as the member of the Lok Sabha for Wayanad , Kerala , since November 2024. A member of the Indian National Congress , she is also serving as a general secretary of the All India Congress Committee (AICC). Gandhi Vadra is a member of the politically prominent Nehru-Gandhi family . She is also a trustee of the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation . Early life and education Gandhi was born in Delhi on 12 January 1972 to Rajiv Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi , as the younger of their two children. Her older brother Rahul Gandhi is a member of Parliament from Rae Bareli in Uttar Pradesh and 12th Leader of the Opposition in Lok Sabha . She is the granddaughter of Indira Gandhi , the former Prime Minister of India, and Feroze Gandhi , a freedom fighter and politician, and the great-granddaughter of India's first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru . Gandhi did her schooling at Welham Girls' School in Dehradun till 1984. After this, both Rahul and she were moved to day schools in Delhi due to security reasons. [ 2 ] After the assassination of Indira Gandhi , because of constant terror threats, she and her brother Rahul were home-schooled. [ 3 ] Later she joined the Convent of Jesus and Mary, Delhi . [ 4 ] She then completed a bachelor's degree in psychology from Jesus and Mary College , New Delhi , [ 5 ] and a master's degree in Buddhist studies in 2010. [ 6 ] In 1997, Gandhi married Robert Vadra , a Delhi-based businessman, and started using the name Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. The couple have two children. After being asked to vacate the government accommodation at Lodhi estate, Gandhi moved to Gurugram . [ 7 ] Political career Gandhi Vadra regularly visited the constituencies of Rae Bareilly and Amethi , where she interacted directly with the local residents. [ 8 ] In the 2004 Indian general election , she served as her mother's campaign manager and assisted in overseeing her brother Rahul Gandhi's campaign. [ 9 ] During the 2007 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections , while Rahul Gandhi managed the statewide campaign, she concentrated on the ten seats in the Amethi and Rae Bareilly region, spending two weeks addressing infighting among party workers over seat allocations. [ 10 ] Formative years Despite Gandhi Vadra's reluctance to engage directly in politics before her official entry in 2019, she actively participated in election campaigns for her mother and brother in both general and assembly elections. She frequently visited the constituencies of Rae Bareilly and Amethi, where she interacted directly with the residents. This involvement made her a known figure with significant support in these areas, leading to the election slogan in Amethi, "Amethi ka Danka, Bitiya Priyanka" (the clarion call from Amethi is for Priyanka to stand for elections). [ 11 ] Political debut Priyanka (right) and brother Rahul (left), in an election rally in 2019. On 23 January 2019, she formally entered politics after being appointed as the AICC General Secretary in charge of the eastern part of Uttar Pradesh and then as the General Secretary in charge of the entire state of Uttar Pradesh [ 12 ] on 11 September 2020. [ 13 ] In October 2021, Gandhi Vadra was detained twice by the UP Police. [ 14 ] The first detention followed her visit to Lakhimpur Kheri in western UP where eight people were killed following clashes between protesting farmers and the convey of Union Minister Ajay Misra's son. [ 15 ] She and several other party leaders were detained at a PAC guest house in Sitapur , which was being used as a temporary jail to keep them for over 50 hrs. [ 15 ] The second detention tool place in the district of Agra where the UP Police detained her citing a ban on gatherings, while on her way to Agra to meet the family members of a man who allegedly died in police custody. [ 16 ] 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections Gandhi Vadra launched the Congress party's Uttar Pradesh poll campaign from Barabanki on 23 October 2021. [ 17 ] [ 18 ] In January 2022, she launched the Congress's manifesto for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly election along with her brother Rahul. The manifesto was focused on youth and women empowerment along with development for the state and also promised 40% of tickets to women in upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. [ 19 ] [ 20 ] Pivoting the campaign on women's empowerment and participation in politics, she kickstarted the "Ladki hoon, Lad Sakti hoon" campaign in the state. On the day of International Women's Day , she launched a rally in the state's capital Lucknow which, laced with several promises and hopes, saw the participation of women from all over the state. [ 21 ] Despite all her attempts to revive the party in Uttar Pradesh , the Congress Party faced a rout in the assembly elections; winning just 2 out of the 403 assembly seats. Gandhi Vadra resigned as AICC General Secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh in December 2023. [ 22 ] Following the Congress' defeat in the state elections, on 5 August 2022, she took part in Congress's ‘Mehangai Par Halla Bol’ protest against price-rise and inflation and was detained by the Delhi Police. [ 23 ] Member of Parliament After extensively campaigning for the Congress during the 2024 Indian general election and taking a more organisational role within the party, Gandhi Vadra announced that she would join electoral politics and contest as the party's candidate for the Wayanad bypoll , to succeed her brother, Rahul . [ 24 ] [ 25 ] She won the election  by a margin of 4,10,931 votes. [ 26 ] [ 27 ] [ 28 ] She will serve in Parliament alongside her mother Sonia and brother Rahul. She and her brother are the only sibling duo serving together in the 18th Lok Sabha . [ 29 ] Electoral history Year Election Party Constituency Name Result Votes gained Vote share% Margin 2024 by-election 18th Lok Sabha INC Wayanad Won 6,22,338 64.99% 4,10,931 See also List of political families Nehru-Gandhi family Notes ^ Initially appointed as General Secretary for Eastern Uttar Pradesh . References ^ https://indianexpress.com/article/political-pulse/priyanka-gandhi-vadra-uttar-pradesh-congress-avinash-pande-9081382/ ^ "At school, forever" . The Economic Times . 5 November 2006. ^ "Short Biography of Priyanka Gandhi" . 25 January 2012. ^ "Priyanka Gandhi Biography" . elections.in . Retrieved 18 September 2021 . ^ "Facts about Gandhi" . Zee Media . Zee News . Zee Media Corporation Company. 12 January 2016 . Retrieved 1 May 2017 . ^ Bhavna Vij-Aurora (11 February 2012). "UP polls 2012: Robert Vadra bids for a place in Gandhi family power structure" . India Today . Retrieved 1 February 2019 . ^ "Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to move to Gurgaon" . Mumbai Mirror . 23 July 2020 . Retrieved 23 December 2021 . ^ "Priyanka Vadra returns to campaign in Amethi". India Today . 16 January 2012. ^ "Priyanka may be assigned 100 constituencies" . Rediff.com . Retrieved 1 May 2017 . ^ Rana, Uday (4 July 2016). "Priyanka Gandhi - The Economic Times" . The Economic Times . Retrieved 7 November 2019 . ^ "प्रियंका गांधी के हाथ यूपी विधानसभा चुनाव में 'कांग्रेस' की कमान, ऐसा रहा है सियासी सफर" . 5 February 2022. ^ "Priyanka Gandhi appointed Congress party general secretary for UP-east" . Business Standard . 23 January 2019 . Retrieved 23 January 2019 . ^ "Who is Priyanka Gandhi?" . Business Standard . ^ Shilpi Sen; Ashish Mishra (20 October 2021). "Priyanka Gandhi detained on way to meet family of Agra man who died in police custody" . India Today . ^ a b "Priyanka Gandhi Vadra released from detention, leaves for Lakhimpur Kheri with Rahul" . ThePrint . 6 October 2021 . Retrieved 5 April 2023 . ^ "Priyanka Gandhi detained on way to meet family of Agra man who died in police custody" . 20 October 2021. ^ "Uttar Pradesh: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra kicks off Congress poll campaign with seven vows" . The Times of India . 23 October 2021 . Retrieved 4 January 2022 . ^ "Priyanka Gandhi launches UP poll campaign with loan waiver pledge" . The Tribune India . 24 October 2021 . Retrieved 4 January 2022 . ^ "Congress will contest UP election under Priyanka Gandhi's leadership: Salman Khurshid" . India Today . 13 September 2021 . Retrieved 4 January 2022 . ^ "Priyanka Gandhi will be face of Congress election campaign in U.P., says P.L. Punia" . The Hindu . 17 October 2021 . Retrieved 4 January 2022 . ^ "लखनऊ की सड़कों पर गूंजे लड़की हूं लड़ सकती हूं के नारे, महिला दिवस पर प्रियंका गांधी ने निकाला पैदल जुलूस" . ^ "Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to contest bypolls from Wayanad: A look at her 2-decade political journey" . The Indian Express . 17 June 2024 . Retrieved 17 June 2024 . ^ "Heart of Delhi sees Congress protest; Rahul, Priyanka, Pilot among those detained" . 5 August 2022. ^ "Rahul Gandhi to retain Rae Bareli Lok Sabha seat; Priyanka Gandhi to contest from Wayanad" . The Hindu . 17 June 2024. ISSN 0971-751X . Retrieved 17 June 2024 . ^ "Priyanka Gandhi: India Congress leader to contest election" . BBC News . 18 June 2024 . Retrieved 20 June 2024 . ^ "Priyanka Gandhi: Cong's talismanic campaigner enters Parliament after 'long, long time' " . The Economic Times . 23 November 2024 . Retrieved 23 November 2024 . ^ The Hindu (23 November 2024). "Priyanka wins Wayanad Lok Sabha seat by huge margin, Congress retains Nanded too" . Archived from the original on 23 November 2024 . Retrieved 23 November 2024 . ^ Election Commission of India (23 November 2024). "Wayanad bypoll Result 2024" . Archived from the original on 23 November 2024 . Retrieved 23 November 2024 . ^ "Parliament 'families': Sonia-Rahul-Priyanka, other MP-relatives in LS, RS" . The Federal . 23 November 2024 . Retrieved 12 April 2025 . External links Wikimedia Commons has media related to Priyanka Gandhi . v t e Members of the 18th Lok Sabha from Kerala GE 2024 Rajmohan Unnithan K. Sudhakaran Shafi Parambil Rahul Gandhi (Vacated) M. K. Raghavan E. T. Mohammed Basheer M. P. Abdussamad Samadani V. K. Sreekandan K. Radhakrishnan Suresh Gopi Benny Behanan Hibi Eden Dean Kuriakose Francis George K. C. Venugopal Kodikunnil Suresh Anto Antony N. K. Premachandran Adoor Prakash Shashi Tharoor 17th LS members 19th LS members Members of the 18th Lok Sabha from States AP AR AS BR CT GA GJ HR HP JH KA KL MP MH ML MN MZ NL OR PB RJ SK TG TN TR UP UT WB Union territories AN CH DH DL JK LA LD PY v t e Indian National Congress History History of the Indian National Congress Electoral history AICC Sessions Nehru–Gandhi family The Emergency Indian National Congress (Organisation) Indian National Congress (R) Indian National Congress (I) Breakaway parties Organisation President All India Congress Committee Congress Working Committee Regional Congress Committee Pradesh Andhra Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Assam Bihar Chhattisgarh Delhi Goa Gujarat Haryana Himachal Pradesh Jammu and Kashmir Jharkhand Karnataka Kerala Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Odisha Puducherry Punjab Rajasthan Sikkim Tamil Nadu Telangana Tripura Uttarakhand Uttar Pradesh West Bengal Territorial Andaman and Nicobar Chandigarh Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu Dadra and Nagar Haveli Diu Daman and Diu Ladakh Lakshadweep Other Mumbai RCC Presidents Womesh Chunder Bonnerjee Dadabhai Naoroji Badruddin Tyabji George Yule William Wedderburn Pherozeshah Mehta Anandacharlu Womesh Chunder Bonnerjee Dadabhai Naoroji Webb Surendranath Banerjee Rahimtulla M. Sayani C. Sankaran Nair Anandamohan Bose Romesh Chunder Dutt N. G. Chandavarkar Dinshaw Edulji Wacha Surendranath Banerjee Lalmohan Ghosh Henry Cotton Gopal Krishna Gokhale Dadabhai Naoroji Rash Behari Ghosh Madan Mohan Malaviya William Wedderburn Bishan Narayan Dar Raghunath Narasinha Mudholkar Nawab Syed Muhammad Bahadur Bhupendra Nath Bose Satyendra Prasanna Sinha, 1st Baron Sinha Ambica Charan Mazumdar Annie Besant Madan Mohan Malaviya Syed Hasan Imam Motilal Nehru Lala Lajpat Rai C. Vijayaraghavachariar Hakim Ajmal Khan Chittaranjan Das Mohammad Ali Jauhar Abul Kalam Azad Mahatma Gandhi Sarojini Naidu S. Srinivasa Iyengar Mukhtar Ahmed Ansari Motilal Nehru Jawaharlal Nehru Vallabhbhai Patel Madan Mohan Malaviya Nellie Sengupta Rajendra Prasad Jawaharlal Nehru Subhas Chandra Bose Abul Kalam Azad J. B. Kripalani Bhogaraju Pattabhi Sitaramayya Purushottam Das Tandon Jawaharlal Nehru U. N. Dhebar Indira Gandhi Neelam Sanjiva Reddy K. Kamaraj S. Nijalingappa Jagjivan Ram Shankar Dayal Sharma D. K. Barooah Indira Gandhi Rajiv Gandhi P. V. Narasimha Rao Sitaram Kesri Sonia Gandhi Rahul Gandhi Mallikarjun Kharge Prime ministers Jawaharlal Nehru Lal Bahadur Shastri Gulzarilal Nanda Indira Gandhi Rajiv Gandhi P. V. Narasimha Rao Manmohan Singh Leaders Lok Sabha Jawaharlal Nehru Gulzarilal Nanda Lal Bahadur Shastri Satya Narayan Indira Gandhi Yashwantrao Chavan Chembakassery Mathai Stephen Rajiv Gandhi Arjun Singh P. V. Narasimha Rao Sharad Pawar Sonia Gandhi Pranab Mukherjee Sushilkumar Shinde Mallikarjun Kharge Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury Ravneet Singh Bittu Rahul Gandhi Rajya Sabha N. Gopalaswamy Ayyangar Charu Chandra Lal Bahadur Shastri Govind Ballabh Hafiz Mohamad Ibrahim Yashwantrao Chavan Jaisukhlal Hathi M. C. Chagla Jaisukhlal Hathi Kodardas Kalidas Shah Uma Shankar Dikshit Kamalapati Tripathi Pranab Mukherjee V.P. Singh Narayan Dutt Tiwari P. Shiv Shankar Shankarrao Chavan Motilal Vora Ahmed Patel Anand Sharma Jairam Ramesh A. K. Antony Digvijaya Singh P. Chidambaram Abhishek Singhvi Rajeev Shukla Manmohan Singh Ghulam Nabi Azad Mallikarjun Kharge Political wings Seva Dal All India Mahila Congress Indian Youth Congress National Students' Union of India Indian National Trade Union Congress All India Professionals Congress Chief ministers Current Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu Siddaramaiah Anumula Revanth Reddy Category Authority control databases International ISNI VIAF WorldCat National Germany United States Poland Wikiquote has quotations related to Priyanka Gandhi . Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Priyanka_Gandhi&oldid=1286882037 " Categories : 1972 births Indian National Congress politicians from Delhi Indian people of Italian descent India MPs 2024–2029 Lok Sabha members from Kerala People of Parsi descent Kashmiri Pandits Kashmiri women Living people Nehru–Gandhi family Women in Delhi politics Delhi University alumni Children of prime ministers of India Women in Uttar Pradesh politics 21st-century Indian women politicians 20th-century Indian women politicians 20th-century Indian politicians Politicians from New Delhi Welham Girls' School alumni Women members of the Lok Sabha Women in Kerala politics Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected biographies of living people EngvarB from August 2014 Use dmy dates from April 2023 Commons category link from Wikidata This page was last edited on 22 April 2025, at 15:53 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Priyanka Gandhi 37 languages Add topic